The Rosetta Stone to Cross Cultural Communication

	
enjoy
I cannot wait to show you
	
	I/ Introduction
		1/ Intro Video
Create a map to a roadmap to to understand the culture around you. This course will  If you have recently started a new job or moved to a different part of the country or even moved to a different country then you will want to understand you will want to know how to conduct yourself in order to fit in as a local. learn to creat  trust when you meet someone new. Learn to voice your opinion even if it differs from those unde around you. Cross Cul An understanding of Cross Cultural communication will help you to underrstand the leadership style you prefer. It will even ehlp you underderstad the leadership style of the company you work with or even understand the leadership style of you family. Who makes the decisions around you? Learn whether decisions are made as a group or if they are made from the top of the organization and passed down. Understand the best method to give feedback.  By the end of the course you will know how to create trust with people you have never met, . You will know how to create your own roadmap. I will include a handout that you can reuse whenever you go into a new situation and need to understand your culture.

		2/ My Experience
One of my first memories were when  earliest memories involves my desire to communicate with my parents. They did something which I did not enjoy. I decided I would tell them how I felt. 

At this time my parents sat in the fron roo of the house talking with my Grandmother, my Dad’s mom.  I was in another room of the house thinking about the best way to tell my parents how I felt. Bear in mind I was about 2 years old at the tie.

Finally, I decided to run into the room. I dropped down on the floor in the space between my Parents and Grandmother. I began yelling and flailing my arms and legs back and forth. My parents were new to parents at the time. They were shocked to see me lieing on the floor and did not know what to do. In contrast, my Grandmother was a seasoned professional. Quietly she raised her finger to her mouth to signal to the to remain silent. They followed her lead. Next, my Grandmother stood up and quietly walked out of the room and my parents followed her.

After a while I decied to look around and see how much progress I was making towards expressing my discontent. Sur I was surpised to find myself screaming by myself. They were in another room continuing their conversation as if nothing happened. 

I felt uncomfortable lying on the floor screaming and flailing my arms. I decided to stop and stand off. I decided this really wasn’t athe best way to communicate my ideas.

This experience started my lifelong curiosity with communication.  What do I have to do to share my thoughts and ideas? This has always been one of my biggest questions. I believe communication is integral to being human. Our ability to talk to one another regardless of whether it is to express disagreement or work with a partner to start a business. Our ability to express our ideas in a way that people will want to listen makes all the difference. 

I hope you enjoyed the story of my childhoodhood. I will see you in the next video.

		3/ Why did I share the story of my childhood?
In this video I will give you your first exercise. but first I would like to begin with a short debriefing. Why did I tell you the story of an early experience. How is it relevant to this course?

Our goal is for you to have an intuitive understanding of culture. In this course we will decode cultures, this is the reason I called the  course the Rosetta Stone of Cross Cultural Communication. 

For years Scientists wanted to learn hieroglyphics in order to read the documents they found in the pyramids of Egypt. Finally someone found a stone that had 3 languages on it. One of the languages was written in Greek. By having the greek language on the stone coupled with the Hieroglyphic language the scientists were slowly able to decode the hieroglyphic language.

We are going to learn to look for codes in the organizations and communities we belong to in order to learn how to communicate with our peers, family members and coworkers and business partners. and employees.

You will enjoy coming to a natural, intuitive understanding of our culture. As children we intuitively understand where we fit into our families. We do not have a book or instructions. 

If someone tells us no, then we know this is a boundary we should not cross. If no one says anything about our behavior then we understand  that what we are doing is acceptable.

As adults our communities expand and over time it is difficult to adjust quickly to our changing surroundings. This is the reason we have studies such as cross cultural communication, it enables us to the understanding of this field enables us to quckly adjust to our surroundings in order to be successful in our endeavors.

For our first assignment I would like for you to think of a your eraliest attempt to coommunicate. Once you have the experience in mind, ask these questions, what did you learn about communicating from this experience?

		4/ Culture is Ubiquitous, Culture is Simplistic


		5/ Hofstede studies
Wikipedia

Welcome back, I am excited to share with you the cultural dimensions theory developed by Geert Hofstede. In the next section we will break down the theory into each of the 6 dimensions. Using these dimensions we create a roadmap, a guide that we can use when we entered a new setting. The guide will allow us to quickly and easily access the new group. Using our assessment we will be able to fit into the group quickly and become a local, a trusted member of the team. Once we have digested our roadmap we will not need it anymore because we will be able to intuitively understand the new group, feel comfortable and accomplish our goals for being in the group.


	II/ Recognize Different Cultures in Your World
geerthofstede.com
perfectly acceptable and natural in one country, can be confusing or even offensive in another. All the levels in communication are affected by cultural dimensions: verbals (words and language itself), non verbals (body language, gestures) and etiquette do's and don'ts (clothing, gift-giving, dining, customs and protocol). And this is also valid for written communication as explained in William Wardrobe's essay "Beyond Hofstede: Cultural applications for communication with Latin American Businesses".

International negotiation[edit]
In international negotiations, communication style, expectation, issue ranking and goals will change according to the negotiators' countries of origin. If applied properly, an understanding of cultural dimensions should increase success in negotiations and reduce frustration and conflicts.[16] For example, in a negotiation between Chinese and Canadians, the Canadian negotiators may want to reach an agreement and sign a contract, whereas the Chinese negotiators may want to spend more time for non-business activities, small talks and hospitality with preferences for protocol and form in order to first establish the relationship.

"When negotiating in Western countries, the objective is to work toward a target of mutual understanding and agreement and 'shake-hands' when that agreement is reached – a cultural signal of the end of negotiations and the start of 'working together'. In Middle Eastern countries much negotiation takes place leading into the 'agreement', signified by shaking hands. However, the deal is not complete in the Middle Eastern culture. In fact, it is a cultural sign that 'serious' negotiations are just beginning."[13]


		1/ Individualism Story
		1/ Individualism Concept
		1/ Individualism Exercise
		2/ Power Distance Story
		2/ Power Distance Concept
		2/ Power Distance Exercise
		3/ Masculinity Story
		3/ Masculinity Concept
		3/ Masculinity Exercise
		4/ Uncertainty Avoidance Story
		4/ Uncertainty Avoidance Concept
		4/ Uncertainty Avoidance Exercise
		5/ Long-term Orientation Story
		5/ Long-term Orientation Concept
		5/ Long-term Orientation Exercise
		6/ Indulgence Story
		6/ Indulgence Concept
		6/ Indulgence Exercise
	
	
	III/ Conclusion
		1/ Story to Recap Culture
Geerthofstede asks the questions, why is culture so important?
Do we need to bother about culture? Every visitor of this site has her or his unique personality, history, and interest. At the same time, we share our human nature. We are group animals. We use language and empathy, and practice collaboration and inter-group competition. The unwritten rules of how we do these things differ from one human group to another. “Culture” is how we call these unwritten rules about how to be a good member of the group.
https://geerthofstede.com


		2/ The Dimensions in Action
		3/ Create Your Culture Map
		4/ Coupons and Discounts


resource
Geert Hofstede on Culture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=26&v=wdh40kgyYOY